#WE DON’T NEED NO EDUCATION: Correlation between the Brazilian ENEM scores and subjects taught in schools.
Brazilian’s Exame Nacional do Ensino Médio (ENEM) evaluate the country’s high school education through a standard exam applied nation-wide every year, since 1998, with reformulations in 2009. Besides school’s evaluation ENEM also serves as the individuals’ form of ingress in colleges. Another important national evaluation is the Censo da Educação. It refers to a nationwide evaluation which gather data about education in all public and private schools, from all levels of basic education. This study has the objective of investigate the relation between ENEM’s scores and the percentage of classes taught in schools from all Brazilian municipalities. Data were gathered from 2014’s ENEM and Censo da Educação. For the Censo da Educação only the regular high school information was used. And for the ENEM´s score only information about students who were graduating in that year or have graduated already in high school were considered. Since data were gathered from two different databases, they were concatenated in the level of municipalities. This procedure allowed to match municipalities’ schools characteristics with its ENEM´s grade. ENEM’s test is divided into four categories, which are: 1) language, including knowledge of Portuguese language, a foreign modern language, literature, arts, physical education and information technology; 2) math, 3) nature’s sciences – including chemistry, physics and biology, and 4) human sciences– including geography, history, philosophy, sociology and general knowledges. The mean and standard deviation for each municipality was calculated and transformed into a z-score. Correlation was calculated through Pearson’s Correlation between class percentage and ENEM score index. 
Math class was not correlated with ENEM’s math index in public schools (r = .06) and in private schools (r = .03). ENEM’s language index also correlated insignificantly with Portuguese language, but in negative direction in private (r = -.08) schools, with a zero correlation on public schools. ENEM’s human sciences index is negative related to history class (r = -.12), sociology (r = -.09), geography (r = -.12) and philosophy (r = -.10) in private schools and near zero positive correlation on public schools except in geography (r = -.01). Nature sciences’ index is negatively related in private schools to biology (r = -.02), chemistry (r = -.02) and physics (r = -.02), and has near zero positive correlation on public schools to chemistry (r = .07), biology (r = .07) and physics (r = .07).
These results show that, in some disciplines, at municipalities with high percentage of classes, the ENEM’s score tend to be lower when compared to cities with lower percentage, especially at private schools. Our preliminary results suggest that, contrary to expectations, the number of classes for an area may not predict ENEM´s grade. This results bring sensible data to the ongoing discussions about Brazilian’s high school policies.
